---
title: Weekly Links 29/2024
author: Ninad
layout: post
permalink: /blog/2024/10/weekly-links-29/
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - notetoself
  - reading
  - links
---
We're back, after a hiatus! I'm learning a bunch of random things these days, here's an assorted collection of links:
* I started Recurse Center last week, and have been meeting many new folks. Shenai wrote up about their experience of [starting to learn Emacs](https://clarionsong.substack.com/p/becoming-a-keyboard-shortcuts-lover), and ended up focussing on keyboard shortcuts as a way of life. I've had long discussions about this very topic with friends, and it's good to hear opinions from other folks periodically.
* I use Firefox as my primary browser, and one of the actions I do numerous times a day is to search for a tab. I sometimes use the mouse/pointer to click on `Search Tabs`, but had not found a good keyboard shortcut for it in the usual Keyboard Shortcuts documentation. Shenai's article nagged me to fix this, and I finally [found it](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/search-open-tabs-firefox): `ctrl+l` (or `command+l` if you're on macOS) to focus on the address bar, followed by a `%<space>` to search through the tab titles/URLs.
* This discussion also prompted me to go and search for one of the best `vim` tutorials/resources I have found so far: [Learn Vim Progressively](https://yannesposito.com/Scratch/en/blog/Learn-Vim-Progressively/). This post has been around for a really long time (with a publish date of 2011-08-25!), but I had never bookmarked it. After trying a variety of similar terms, I eventually found this post. Now that it's documented here, I will always have a quick reference.
* Another Recurser, K. Matt Dupree, recently wrote about how [Internal tools often make bad startup ideas](https://www.philosophicalhacker.com/post/internal-tools-as-startup-ideas/). I've been noodling on ideas for what I can try to build as projects, and the associated HN discussion are super relevant, and will help me filter through my ideas a bit better.
* A [slightly long post](https://mdb.anke.domscheit-berg.de/2024/09/microsoft_lobby/) about how Microsoft and SAP are lobbying in the German government, and how that entire effort is to handle data localisation and other statutory requirements, but it may, in reality, may not be the case due to the complexity of modern hyper scaler cloud systems. This article is in German, and I read a translation, so I only got the gist of it all. India (and many other countries) have been amping up the pressure to localise more and more data (it's started with financial transactions, and will eventually spread out to other domains). I can understand the data privacy implications, but I also can see how it is impossible to design modern SaaS products and services without breaking some of these expectations. I don't think there is ever going to be a right way to deal with this, and I'll keep reading about how everyone is approaching this topic.
That's it for this week.