---
title: Weekly Links 05/2025
author: Ninad
permalink: /blog/2025/02/weekly-links-05/
tags:
  - notetoself
  - reading
  - links
categories:
  - Blog
---
Most of this week was better than the last one! Kiddo is almost back to normal, I got more work done, and I read some stuff too!

* A friend wanted to chat about WebRTC and understand how some of it works. Our conversation eventually reached the point where networks need to be finagled so that data can be sent around, and it reminded me of [this.excellent post](https://tailscale.com/blog/how-nat-traversal-works) by the folks at Tailscale about how NAT traversal works.
* One of the most exciting events from this week is the announcement that major parts of the PebbleOS (the original brand for smartwatches, not the duplicate ones sold in India under the same name) have been open sourced by Google. And, folks like Eric Migicovsky (the founder) and the community (including [rebble.io](rebble.io)) are bringing [Pebble Back](repebble.com). It will probably take some time before any real products hit the market, but I'm stoked! Much thanks to all the folks who made this happen!
* A mad lad announced [a project](https://blog.koenvh.nl/dialns-a-dns-resolver-over-the-phone) that lets you call a number to make a DNS query. Fun stuff!
* [This video](https://youtu.be/r8IqkUTGjlA) from the CCC's recent conference presents an attempt to build a fully open source networking (primarily, WiFi and Bluetooth) stack for the ESP32. Having recently worked on a (half done) project with this device, it was great to listen to this and understand how everything is put together much better.
* [This step by step guide](https://youtu.be/u2Juz5sQyYQ) to make the tiniest possible Linux distro is excellent. It also reminded me of an older video where Rob Landley, one of the folks behind busybox and toybox, [did the same thing](https://youtu.be/Sk9TatW9ino). The latter is a more in-depth explanation, and both are great!


That's it for this week!
